# Day 3
>Descriptions of both problems can be found [here.](https://adventofcode.com/2021/day/3)

## Part 1
* **gammaZip** takes a binary string and a list of integers. For each 1 in the string, the corresponding number (by position) in the number list gets incremented. For each 0 in the string, the corresponding number (by position) in the number list gets decremented. 

*  **inverse** inverses a binary list of numbers. Used for finding epsilon, which is the *inverse* of *gamma*.

* **binToDec** takes a list of binary digits (starting with the most meaning bit) and converts it to a base 10 integer.

* **maxDigitsByPosition** takes the list of binary strings and returns a list of numbers, counting which digit is prevalent at each position with the help of **gammaZip**.

* **parse** takes the list, generated by **maxDigitsByPosition** and converts the non-negative integers to 1's, setting the negative ones to 0.

To try out the solution to **part 1**, load the file *Day03.hs* in GHCI, call the function *main1*, and type in the name of the input file of your choosing (file extension included). 
* The expected output for *input1.txt* is 198.
* The expected output for *input2.txt* is 4139586.

## Part 2
* **binStrToInt** converts a string of binary digits to a list of binary integers.

* **majorityFirst** takes a list of binary strings and returns the majority digit character among each lists' first elements. 

* **minorityFirst** - you guessed it, the opposite of **majorityFirst**.

* **oxygenFilter** takes a list of binary strings and returns a list of binary digits, each being the *majority* for its' position. On each step, it takes only the numbers, which have the current step's majority.

* **co2Filter**, similarly to **oxygenFilter**, returns the *minority* in each position.


To try out the solution to **part 2**, load the file *Day03.hs* in GHCI, call the function *main2*, and type in the name of the input file of your choosing (file extension included). 
* The expected output for *input1.txt* is 230.
* The expected output for *input2.txt* is 1800151.

